Welcome to MoPad!

This pad text is synchronized as you type, so that everyone viewing this page sees the same text.  This allows you to collaborate seamlessly on documents!

Please be cognizant of whether you are using a public pad or private/team pad, and take appropriate precautions with data you post here!
 
 Welcome to the Version Control Workshop!!!
 
 :D
 
 Type out your questions here!
 
 Start off with Git Bash
I will take notes for everyone, so just follow us along during the workshop!

Purpose of workshop: to present best practices in analysis.

Reproducible research: if someone asks for your data and your code, how likely will they be able to reproduce exactly what your results were (using your own data and code)?

The purpose of these workshops is not to teach you statistics. We have listed some resources you can use if you do have statistics related questions.

Documented problems with reproducing other research results. Has created a movement toward "reproducibility" in research methods.

Git - will track files in your computer folders (e.g. folder with statistical codes). Tell Git to watch the folder, it will track the history of changes/modifications to files in those folders. This is version control. Git is a version control program.

Git is a computer lab book for your code.

You can delete entire parts of your code, Git will have a history that it was deleted, so you are not losing anything. You can pull up this history and see things that were deleted if you want to put anything back.

Focus first on tracking your statistical code files (SAS code files are plain text files and are easily tracked by Git). It is possible to also track manuscript files, but if nothing else, we will be very happy if you start tracking your SAS/stats codes :D

Research funding institutes will make it mandatory to make data and statistical codes openly, publicly available in the very near future. Very good idea to track your codes so you are comfortable doing this.

First few Git config lines: do this the very first time you use Git, and only this time. It configures the program on your computer.

GitHub: Repository (repo) for backing up your tracked computer files. Is also a social network community, so you are limited in the number of private repos you can have (Students get 5 free private repos). Non-students only get public repos unless they pay to make them private. Bitbucket is another online repo option that gives free private repos to everyone (student or not), but you lose the social network community aspect that you get with GitHub. If you want to collaborate using online repos, GitHub is better.

The commands for Git are in the cheatsheet
to change directory: cd ~/nameofyourfolder
OR COPY/CUT and PASTE into your new document because the .git actually remembers to save your documents in that folder.


From our chat:

Luke: woooooo
13:56 Daiva: You guys can write in here
13:56 Daiva: and we can communicate
15:04 Ingrid: http://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/16593/how-do-i-start-texteditor-from-the-command-line
15:12 Ingrid: or http://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/116340/how-to-launch-textmate-and-probably-other-software-from-the-command-line?rq=1
15:33 Mavra: Questions to ask: 1) Where is the notepad file that saved my messages re: changes?
15:43 Mavra: 2) I still donot understand how I can access a new folder with just telling git to branch
15:45 Ingrid: defaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles -boolean true ; killall Finder
15:47 Mavra: You answered number 2
15:48 Mavra: and 1
15:50 Ingrid: http://www.idownloadblog.com/2014/08/04/how-to-show-hidden-files-folders-finder-mac/
16:00 Ingrid: some links on how to open text mate on terminal and how to show the hidden folders
16:10 Mavra: thank you:)